Today, we’re excited to release IBM Granite 3.0, the third generation of
the Granite series of large language models (LLMs) and complementary
tools. Reflecting our focus on the balance between powerful and
practical, the new IBM Granite 3.0 models deliver state-of-the-art
performance relative to model size while maximizing safety, speed and
cost-efficiency for enterprise use cases. Headlining the Granite 3.0
collection is a new, instruction-tuned, dense decoder-only LLM: Granite
3.0 8B Instruct. Trained using a novel two-phase method on over 12
trillion tokens of carefully vetted data across 12 different natural
languages and 116 different programming languages, the
developer-friendly Granite 3.0 8B Instruct is a workhorse enterprise
model intended to serve as a primary building block for sophisticated
workflows and tool-based use cases. Granite 3.0 8B Instruct matches
leading similarly-sized open models on academic benchmarks while
outperforming those peers on benchmarks for enterprise tasks and safety.
Fine-tuning smaller, fit-for-purpose models like Granite enables
enterprises to pursue frontier model performance at a fraction of the
cost. Tailoring Granite models to your organization’s unique needs
through InstructLab, a collaborative, open source approach to augmenting
model knowledge and skills with systematically generated synthetic data
and phased-training protocols, can reduce costs and timelines even
further. In keeping with IBM’s strong historical commitment to open
source, all Granite models are released under the permissive Apache 2.0
license, bucking the recent trend of closed models or open weight models
released under idiosyncratic proprietary licensing agreements. In
another divergence from industry trends for open models, IBM is
providing a detailed disclosure of training data sets and methodologies
in the Granite 3.0 technical paper, reaffirming IBM’s dedication to
building transparency, safety and trust in AI products. In its entirety,
the IBM Granite 3.0 release comprises: Dense, general purpose LLMs:
Granite-3.0-8B-Instruct, Granite-3.0-8B-Base, Granite-3.0-2B-Instruct
and Granite-3.0-2B-Base. LLM-based input-output guardrail models:
Granite-Guardian-3.0-8B, Granite-Guardian-3.0-2B Mixture of experts
(MoE) models for minimum latency: Granite-3.0-3B-A800M-Instruct,
Granite-3.0-1B-A400M-Instruct Speculative decoder for increased
inference speed and efficiency: Granite-3.0-8B-Instruct-Accelerator
Impending updates planned for the remainder of 2024 include an expansion
of all model context windows to 128K tokens, further improvements in
multilingual support for 12 natural languages and the introduction of
multimodal image-in, text-out capabilities. Granite 3.0 8B Instruct and
Granite 3.0 2B Instruct, as well as both Guardian 3.0 safety models, are
available today for commercial use on the IBM watsonx platform. Granite
3.0 models are also available through platform partners, including
Google Vertex AI (through Google Cloud's Vertex AI Model Garden
integrations with Hugging Face), Hugging Face, NVIDIA (as NIM
microservices), Ollama and Replicate. Continuing IBM’s commitment to
sustainability, IBM Granite 3.0 language models are trained on Blue
Vela, powered by 100% renewable energy. Powerful performance, safety and
security Previous generations of Granite models prioritized specialized
use cases, excelling at domain-specific tasks across a diverse array of
industries including finance, legal, code and academia. In addition to
offering even greater efficacy in those arenas, IBM Granite 3.0 models
match—and, in some cases, exceed—the general performance of leading open
weight LLMs across both academic and enterprise benchmarks. On academic
benchmarks included in Hugging Face’s OpenLLM Leaderboard v2, Granite
3.0 8B Instruct rivals similarly sized models from Meta and Mistral AI.
Code for IBM’s model evaluation methodology is disclosed in the
accompanying technical paper and on the Granite GitHub repository. Bar
chart measuring average LLM performance on academic benchmarks Average
scores across benchmarks included in Hugging Face's OpenLLM Leaderboard
(v2) IBM’s efforts to optimize Granite 3.0 8B Instruct for enterprise
use cases are also readily apparent. For instance, Granite 3.0 8B
Instruct led the evaluations on RAGBench, consisting of 100,000
retrieval augmented generation (RAG) tasks drawn from industry corpora
such as user manuals. Models were compared across the 11 RAGBench
datasets, evaluating for qualities like faithfulness (measuring the
degree to which an output is supported by the retrieved documents) and
correctness (measuring the extent to which the model’s output matches
the factual content and semantic meaning of the ground truth for a given
input). Bar chart displaying average performance on RAGBench Average
results over the 11 RAGBench datasets, evaluated using the RAGAS
framework and GPT4 as a judge. The Granite 3.0 models were likewise
trained to excel in key enterprise domains, such as cybersecurity:
Granite 3.0 8B Instruct excels on both IBM’s proprietary cybersecurity
benchmarks and prominent public security benchmarks. Column chart
indicating performance on cybersecurity benchmarks Performance on both
public and IBM proprietary cybersecurity benchmarks Developers can
leverage the new Granite 3.0 8B Instruct model for classic natural
language use cases including text generation, classification,
summarization, entity extraction and customer service chatbots,
programing language use cases such as code generation, code explanation
and code editing, and for agentic use cases requiring tool calling. When
evaluated across 6 different tool calling benchmarks, including
Berkeley’s Function Calling Leaderboard evaluation set, Granite 3.0 8B
Instruct outperformed leading open models in its weight class. Column
chart displaying model performance on function calling benchmarks
Performance comparison on function calling benchmarks In addition to
exploring the updated collection of Granite recipes and how-to guides on
Github, developers can easily experiment with the new Granite 3.0 8B
Instruct model on the IBM Granite Playground.
